therefore you shall love the Lord your
therefore you shall love the Lord your God and keep his charge his statutes his
God and keep his charge his statutes his
God and keep his charge his statutes his judgments and his Commandments
judgments and his Commandments
judgments and his Commandments always
know today that I do not speak with your
know today that I do not speak with your children who have not known and who have
children who have not known and who have
children who have not known and who have not seen the chastening of the Lord your
not seen the chastening of the Lord your
not seen the chastening of the Lord your God his greatness and his mighty hand
God his greatness and his mighty hand
God his greatness and his mighty hand and his outstretched arm his signs and
and his outstretched arm his signs and
and his outstretched arm his signs and his acts which he did in the midst of
his acts which he did in the midst of
his acts which he did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to
Egypt to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to
Egypt to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to all his land what he did to the army of
all his land what he did to the army of
all his land what he did to the army of Egypt to their horses and their chariots
Egypt to their horses and their chariots
Egypt to their horses and their chariots how he made the waters of the Red Sea
how he made the waters of the Red Sea
how he made the waters of the Red Sea overflow them as they pursued you and
overflow them as they pursued you and
overflow them as they pursued you and how the Lord has destroyed them to this
how the Lord has destroyed them to this
how the Lord has destroyed them to this day what he did for you in the
day what he did for you in the
day what he did for you in the wilderness until you came to this place
wilderness until you came to this place
wilderness until you came to this place and what he did to Dathan and abiram
and what he did to Dathan and abiram
and what he did to Dathan and abiram sons of Eliab the son of reuben and the
sons of Eliab the son of reuben and the
sons of Eliab the son of reuben and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed
earth opened its mouth and swallowed
earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up their households their tents and
them up their households their tents and
them up their households their tents and all the substance that was in their
all the substance that was in their
all the substance that was in their possession in the midst of all Israel
but your eyes have seen every great act
but your eyes have seen every great act of the Lord which he did therefore you
of the Lord which he did therefore you
of the Lord which he did therefore you shall keep every commandment which I
shall keep every commandment which I
shall keep every commandment which I command you today
that you may be strong and go in and
that you may be strong and go in and possess the land which you cross over to
possess the land which you cross over to
possess the land which you cross over to possess and that you may prolong your
possess and that you may prolong your
possess and that you may prolong your days in the land which the Lord swore to
days in the land which the Lord swore to
days in the land which the Lord swore to give your father's to them and their
give your father's to them and their
give your father's to them and their descendants land flowing with milk and
descendants land flowing with milk and
descendants land flowing with milk and honey for the land which you go to
honey for the land which you go to
honey for the land which you go to possess is not like the land of Egypt
possess is not like the land of Egypt
possess is not like the land of Egypt from which you have come where you sowed
from which you have come where you sowed
from which you have come where you sowed your seed and watered it by foot as a
your seed and watered it by foot as a
your seed and watered it by foot as a vegetable garden but the land which you
vegetable garden but the land which you
vegetable garden but the land which you cross over to possess is a land of hills
cross over to possess is a land of hills
cross over to possess is a land of hills and valleys which drinks water from the
and valleys which drinks water from the
and valleys which drinks water from the rain of heaven or a land for which the
rain of heaven or a land for which the
rain of heaven or a land for which the Lord your God cares the eyes of the Lord
Lord your God cares the eyes of the Lord
Lord your God cares the eyes of the Lord your God are always on it
your God are always on it
your God are always on it from the beginning of the year to the
from the beginning of the year to the
from the beginning of the year to the very end of the year and it shall be
very end of the year and it shall be
very end of the year and it shall be that if you earnestly obey my
that if you earnestly obey my
that if you earnestly obey my Commandments which I command you today
Commandments which I command you today
Commandments which I command you today to love the Lord your God and serve Him
to love the Lord your God and serve Him
to love the Lord your God and serve Him with all your heart and with all your
with all your heart and with all your
with all your heart and with all your soul then I will give you the rain for
soul then I will give you the rain for
soul then I will give you the rain for your land in its season the early rain
your land in its season the early rain
your land in its season the early rain and the latter rain that you may gather
and the latter rain that you may gather
and the latter rain that you may gather in your grain your new wine and your oil
in your grain your new wine and your oil
in your grain your new wine and your oil and I will send grass any more fields
and I will send grass any more fields
and I will send grass any more fields for your livestock that you may eat and
for your livestock that you may eat and
for your livestock that you may eat and be filled take heed to yourselves lest
be filled take heed to yourselves lest
be filled take heed to yourselves lest your heart be deceived and you turn
your heart be deceived and you turn
your heart be deceived and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship
aside and serve other gods and worship
aside and serve other gods and worship them this the Lord's anger be aroused
them this the Lord's anger be aroused
them this the Lord's anger be aroused against you and he shut up the heavens
against you and he shut up the heavens
against you and he shut up the heavens so that there be no rain and the land
so that there be no rain and the land
so that there be no rain and the land yield no produce and you perish quickly
yield no produce and you perish quickly
yield no produce and you perish quickly from the good land which the Lord is
from the good land which the Lord is
from the good land which the Lord is giving you
giving you
giving you therefore you shall lay up these words
therefore you shall lay up these words
therefore you shall lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul
of mine in your heart and in your soul
of mine in your heart and in your soul and bind them as a sign on your hand and
and bind them as a sign on your hand and
and bind them as a sign on your hand and they shall be as frontlets between your
they shall be as frontlets between your
they shall be as frontlets between your eyes you shall teach them to your
eyes you shall teach them to your
eyes you shall teach them to your children speaking of them when you sit
children speaking of them when you sit
children speaking of them when you sit in your house when you walk by the way
in your house when you walk by the way
in your house when you walk by the way when you lie down and when you rise up
when you lie down and when you rise up
when you lie down and when you rise up and you shall write them on the
and you shall write them on the
and you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your
doorposts of your house and on your
doorposts of your house and on your gates that your days and the days of
gates that your days and the days of
gates that your days and the days of your children may be multiplied in the
your children may be multiplied in the
your children may be multiplied in the land of which the Lord swore to your
land of which the Lord swore to your
land of which the Lord swore to your father's to give them like the days of
father's to give them like the days of
father's to give them like the days of the heavens above the earth for if you
the heavens above the earth for if you
the heavens above the earth for if you carefully keep all these commandments
carefully keep all these commandments
carefully keep all these commandments which I command you to do to love the
which I command you to do to love the
which I command you to do to love the Lord your God
Lord your God
Lord your God to walk in all his ways and to hold fast
to walk in all his ways and to hold fast
to walk in all his ways and to hold fast to him
then the Lord will drive out all these
then the Lord will drive out all these nations from before you and you will
nations from before you and you will
nations from before you and you will dispose this greater and mightier
dispose this greater and mightier
dispose this greater and mightier nations than yourselves every place on
nations than yourselves every place on
nations than yourselves every place on which the sole of your foot treads shall
which the sole of your foot treads shall
which the sole of your foot treads shall be yours from the wilderness and Lebanon
be yours from the wilderness and Lebanon
be yours from the wilderness and Lebanon from the river the river Euphrates even
from the river the river Euphrates even
from the river the river Euphrates even to the western sea shall be your
to the western sea shall be your
to the western sea shall be your territory no man shall be able to stand
territory no man shall be able to stand
territory no man shall be able to stand against you the Lord your God will put
against you the Lord your God will put
against you the Lord your God will put the dread of you and the fear of you
the dread of you and the fear of you
the dread of you and the fear of you upon all the land where you tread just
upon all the land where you tread just
upon all the land where you tread just as he has said to you behold I set
as he has said to you behold I set
as he has said to you behold I set before you today a blessing and a curse
the blessing if you obey the
the blessing if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God which
commandments of the Lord your God which
commandments of the Lord your God which I command you today and the curse if you
I command you today and the curse if you
I command you today and the curse if you do not obey the commandments of the Lord
do not obey the commandments of the Lord
do not obey the commandments of the Lord your God but turn aside from the way
your God but turn aside from the way
your God but turn aside from the way which I command you today to go after
which I command you today to go after
which I command you today to go after other gods which you have not known now
other gods which you have not known now
other gods which you have not known now it shall be when the Lord your God has
it shall be when the Lord your God has
it shall be when the Lord your God has brought you into the land which you go
brought you into the land which you go
brought you into the land which you go to possess that you shall put the
to possess that you shall put the
to possess that you shall put the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse
blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse
blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse amount evil are they not on the other
amount evil are they not on the other
amount evil are they not on the other side of the Jordan toward the Setting
side of the Jordan toward the Setting
side of the Jordan toward the Setting Sun in the land of the Canaanites who
Sun in the land of the Canaanites who
Sun in the land of the Canaanites who dwelled in the plain opposite Gilgal
dwelled in the plain opposite Gilgal
dwelled in the plain opposite Gilgal beside the terebinth trees of Moria
for you will cross over the Jordan and
for you will cross over the Jordan and go into possess the land which the Lord
go into possess the land which the Lord
go into possess the land which the Lord your God is giving you and you will
your God is giving you and you will
your God is giving you and you will possess it and dwell only in it and you
possess it and dwell only in it and you
possess it and dwell only in it and you shall be careful to observe all the
shall be careful to observe all the
shall be careful to observe all the statutes and judgments which I set
statutes and judgments which I set
statutes and judgments which I set before you today